## Flashing 
> installing from your computer files (APK, SDK and so on) onto DUT
APK: The final product that users install on their Android devices ( tools and blueprints).
SDK: The tools and resources that developers use to build the APK (complete, functional structure ).

### APK (Android Package Kit)
> contains all the code, resources (images, sounds, etc.), and data needed to run the app on an Android device.
> Analogy: executable file for Windows or macOS.
> Usage: When you download and install an app from the Google Play Store, you're essentially downloading and installing an APK file.

Key Characteristics
* Standalone: An APK file is self-contained, containing everything needed to run the app.
* Executable: It's a file that can be executed on an Android device to install the app.

### SDK (Software Development Kit):
> set of tools, libraries, documentation, and sample code that developers use to create Android apps.
> Analogy: toolbox for building a house. It provides the tools, instructions, and materials necessary to construct the application.
> Usage: Developers use the Android SDK to write code, design the UI, test their apps, and ultimately create APK files to distribute.

Key Characteristics:
Development Tools: It includes tools like the Android Studio IDE, compilers, emulators, and debuggers.
Libraries: It contains pre-written code (libraries) that developers can use to perform common tasks.
Documentation: The SDK includes comprehensive documentation to help developers understand how to use its tools and libraries.
Sample Code: It offers sample code to illustrate how to implement various functionalities.

> You flash the DUT from your laptop via terminal with ADB.

## ADB (Android Debug Bridge) 

> command-line tool to communicate with and control Android devices from your computer. 

* Enable USB Debugging: To use most ADB commands, you must enable USB debugging on your Android device.
* Permissions: You may need to grant permissions to ADB (e.g., to access the device's storage).
* Platform Tools: You need to install the Android SDK Platform Tools to use ADB. Download it from the official Android Developer [website]().

### Software Installation
> Install apps from your computer (outside the Play Store).

* 1. Connect your Android device to your computer with USB debugging enabled.
* 2. Open a terminal window.
* 3. Ensure that device is connected by checking in the terminal if it is recognized.

```bash
adb devices
# and press Enter.
# or 
aae toolbox
```

* 4. Find the path to the .apk file of the app you want to install (you can Use finder to get there and then open the folder in terminal).
* 5. Type adb install <path/to/app.apk> and press Enter like so

```bash
adb install -r -d autoembedded.carassistant.arm64-v8a.blablabla_RC00.apk
```

### Debugging App Issues - logcat
> Identify and troubleshoot problems on your Android device.

> view the system logs of your Android device
* Kernel: Messages related to the core operating system.
* System Services: Logs from services like Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and GPS.
* Applications: Messages generated by your apps, including errors, warnings, and debug information.

```bash
# Displays log messages from your device.
adb logcat
adb logcat -c

adb logcat > languageChange01.txt
ls languageChange01.txt

test queries
^C
adb bugreport
```

```bash
aae toolbox config experimental enable
aae device screen
```

### File Transfer
> Transfer files between your computer and your device.

```bash
#Push a file from your computer to your device.
adb push <local_file> <remote_path>
# Pull a file from your device to your computer.
adb pull <remote_path> <local_path>
```

### Shell Access
> Execute commands on your device's Linux shell.

```bash
# Opens a shell on your device, allowing you to execute Linux commands.
adb shell
adb shell <command>
# Executes a command directly on your device 
# to list files in the SD card directory
adb shell ls /sdcard 
```
### Screen Capture:
> Capture screenshots of your device's screen.

```bash
#capture screenshot
adb wait-for-usb-device shell screencap /sdcard screen.png

./adb exec-out screencap -p > $directory/Today_${lang_argument}_${i}.png 

# Capture a screenshot and save it to the device's SD card.
adb shell screencap -p /sdcard/screenshot.png 

# Pull screenshots
adb pull /sdcard/screen.png

# Delete screenhots?

```

### Device Management
> Manage and control multiple connected Android devices.

### Testing
> Run automated tests on your device.

### Other Useful Commands

```bash
# Reboots your device.
adb reboot 

# Reboots your device into recovery mode.
adb reboot recovery
```
